# 2024.01.15

## General Notes

## Algorithm Design

### Developments

* Whitening in ICA seems to increase performance and interpretability but still needs to be looked into further
* Factors that influence the performance of FKT+ICA on semi-simulated data
  * Simulated Signal-to-Noise Ratio
  * Number of Parcels Containing Discriminate Signal
    * FKT so far seems to be robust to the number of parcels whereas dual regression is not as robust
  * Number of subjects containing discriminate signal
    * This is related to signal to noise ratio due to averaging of covariance matrices
  * Simulated signal to non-simulated signal ratio
    * When adding the simulated signal to subjects, I have been multiplying the original signal in that voxel by a value \[0.0,1.0]
    * Given the parcel(s) I have added the signal to is not noise
      * When the value is 0, the non-semi-simulated filter from FKT is also significant. This is because I removed this signal from all the subjects to whom I added the simulated signal.
      * When the value > 0, the non-semi-simulated filter becomes less discriminate because the semi-simulated data is similar to some aspects of the non-semi-simulated subjects since the semi-simulated data was created by adding a signal on top of a preexisting feature seen in all subjects
      * If the simulated signal is added to multiple parcels and the parcels have different features or vastly different noise, this decreases the discriminate ability of the feature or splits the discriminate filter into multiple filters since this is a spatial decomposition more than it is a temporal decomposition&#x20;

### Questions

* How many parcels should I use? Currently, using 208. I did not find ICP with 165
* How to view the principal components from FKT
* Should probably regularize to some degree?
* Do we need pairs?
  * Also, consider pairs temporally and spatially. Since this is a spatial decomposition, i think this means two different matrices temporally could yeild the same coavriance matrices. Is this true? Is this fine (are we assuming same Bold signal generally)?

## Code

### Developments

### ToDo
